A genetic algorithm (GA) is great for finding solutions to complex search problems. 

often used in fields such as engineering to create incredibly high quality products thanks to their ability to search a 
through a huge combination of parameters to find the best match. 

For example, they can search through different combinations of materials and designs to find the perfect combination of both 
which could result in a stronger, lighter and overall, better final product.
- can also be used to design computer algorithms, to schedule tasks, and to solve other optimization problems. 

Genetic algorithms are based on the process of evolution by natural selection which has been observed in nature. They 
essentially replicate the way in which life uses evolution to find solutions to real world problems. Surprisingly although 
genetic algorithms can be used to find solutions to incredibly complicated problems, they are themselves pretty simple to use 
and understand.


The earliest computer scientists—Alan Turing, John von Neumann, Norbert Wiener, and
others—were motivated in large part by visions of imbuing computer programs with intelligence, with the
life−like ability to self−replicate, and with the adaptive capability to learn and to control their environments.
These early pioneers of computer science were as much interested in biology and psychology as in
electronics, and they looked to natural systems as guiding metaphors for how to achieve their visions.


These biologically motivated computing activities have waxed and waned
over the years, but since the early 1980s they have all undergone a resurgence in the computation research
community. The first has grown into the field of neural networks, the second into machine learning, and the
third into what is now called "evolutionary computation," of which genetic algorithms are the most prominent
example.

How they work:
As we now know they're based on the process of natural selection, this means they take the fundamental properties of natural 
selection and apply them to whatever problem it is we're trying to solve.

contd...
