All living organisms consist of cells, and each cell contains the SAME set of one or more
chromosomes—strings of DNA—that serve as a "blueprint" for the organism.

A chromosome can be conceptually divided into genes— each of which encodes a particular protein. Very roughly, one can think 
of a gene as encoding a trait, such as eye color.

The different possible "settings" for a particular trait (e.g., blue, brown,
hazel) are called alleles. Each gene is located at a particular locus (position) on the chromosome.


Many organisms have multiple chromosomes in each cell. The complete collection of genetic material (all
chromosomes taken together) is called the organism's genome.

The term genotype refers to the particular set of genes contained in a genome. Two individuals that have identical genomes are 
said to have the same genotype. The genotype gives rise, under fetal and later development, to the organism's phenotype—its
physical and mental characteristics, such as eye color, height, brain size, and intelligence.





Organisms whose chromosomes are arrayed in pairs are called diploid; organisms whose chromosomes are
unpaired are called haploid

 In nature, most sexually reproducing species are diploid, including human beings,
who each have 23 pairs of chromosomes in each somatic (non−germ) cell in the body. During sexual
reproduction, recombination (or crossover) occurs: in each parent, genes are exchanged between each pair of
chromosomes to form a gamete (a single chromosome), and then gametes formed from the two parents pair up to
create a full set of diploid chromosomes. 

 In haploid sexual reproduction, genes are exchanged between the
two parents' single−strand chromosomes. Offspring are subject to mutation, in which single nucleotides
(elementary bits of DNA) are changed from parent to offspring, the changes often resulting from copying
errors. The fitness of an organism is typically defined as the probability that the organism will live to
reproduce (viability) or defined as a function of the number of offspring the organism has (fertility).

In genetic algorithms, the term chromosome typically refers to a candidate solution to a problem, often
encoded as a bit string. 
The "genes" are either single bits or short blocks of adjacent bits that encode a
particular element of the candidate solution (e.g., in the context of multiparameter-function optimization, the
bits encoding a particular parameter might be considered to be a gene).

An allele in a bit string is either 0 or 1;for larger alphabets more alleles are possible at each locus. 

. Crossover typically consists of exchanging genetic
material between two singlechromosome haploid parents. Mutation consists of flipping the bit at a randomly
chosen locus (or, for larger alphabets, replacing a the symbol at a randomly chosen locus with a randomly
chosen new symbol).

Most applications of genetic algorithms employ haploid individuals, particularly, single−chromosome
individuals. The genotype of an individual in a GA using bit strings is simply the configuration of bits in that
individual's chromosome. 

Often there is no notion of "phenotype" in the context of GAs, although more
recently many workers have experimented with GAs in which there is both a genotypic level and a phenotypic
level (e.g., the bit−string encoding of a neural network and the neural network itself).





